Blog post on the deprecation of the Istio sidecar injection annotation (#934)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2022-12-21-deprecation-of-istio-sidecar-injection-annotation/index.md

So far, you could modify a workloads's configuration using either the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation or the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label. From version 1.16 of Istio, **using the annotation is no longer fully supported**. Therefore, you must verify which of your Pods have the Istio sidecar injection annotation defined and replace each of these annotations with the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label.

## Verify which Pods use the sidecar injection annotation

To see which Pods in your workloads have the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation set, run the following kubectl command:
```
Insert a kubectl command
```
Or the following istioctl command:
```
Insert a istioctl command
```

Here's an example of a Pod with the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation set to `true`:
```
Insert an example
```

## Change the sidecar injection annotations to labels

You must replace `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation with the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label on each of the Pods listed after executing the previous commands. In order to do so, ...

```
Insert instructions
```

Here's an example of a Pod that has the Istio sidecar injection annotation successfully replaced with the label:
```

> Insert an example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: example-workload
  namespace: test-namespace
  labels:
    sidecar.istio.io/inject: "true"
spec:
  containers:
  - name: istio-proxy
    image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/external/istio/proxyv2:1.16.1-distroless
    ...
  - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
    name: example-workload
  ...
```

## Overview
The Istio sidecar proxy can be injected into a Pod in two ways:
* When you set the `istio-inject` label to `enable` at the Namespace level, every newly created Pod has the Istio sidecar proxy automatically injected. 
* When you directly modify the Deployment's configuration file and set the `istio-inject` label.

So far, you could modify a workloads's configuration using either the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation or the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label. From version 1.16 of Istio, **using the annotation is no longer fully supported**. Therefore, you must verify which of your Pods have the Istio sidecar injection annotation defined and replace each of these annotations with the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label.

## Verify which Pods use the sidecar injection annotation

To see which Pods in your workloads have the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation set, run the following kubectl command:
```
Insert a kubectl command
```
Or the following istioctl command:
```

> Insert a istioctl command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
istioctl analyze -n {NAMESPACE}
```

```

Here's an example of a Pod with the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation set to `true`:
```

> Insert an example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: example-workload
  namespace: test-namespace
  annotations:
    sidecar.istio.io/inject: "true"
spec:
  containers:
  - name: istio-proxy
    image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/external/istio/proxyv2:1.16.1-distroless
    ...
  - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
    name: example-workload
  ...
```

---
title: "Deprecation of the Istio sidecar injection annotation"
author:
  name: 
tags:
  - Kyma
  - Service Mesh

redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/deprecation-of-sidecar-injection-annotation"
---
Years go by, seasons change, and every new release brings some updates and fixes to which we need to adjust our workloads. With Istio 1.16 the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation was deprecated in favor of the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label. Read on to find out how to configure your Pods so that the Istio sidecar injection remains fully supported.

## Overview
To enable injecting the Istio sidecar proxy into a Pod, you can label the entire Namespace the Pod belongs to or the Pod itself. For more information about the Istio sidecar proxy injection, read the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/) and visit [this blog post](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/main/04-operation-guides/operations/smsh-01-istio-enable-sidecar-injection/).

> So far, you could modify a workloads's configuration using either the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation or the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label. From version 1.16 of Istio, **using the annotation is no longer fully supported**. Therefore, you must verify which of your Pods have the Istio sidecar injection annotation defined and replace each of these annotations with the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far, you could modify a workloads's configuration using either the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation or the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label. From version 1.16 of Istio, **the annotation is deprecated** in favour of the label. Therefore, you must verify which of your Pods have the Istio sidecar injection annotation defined and replace each of these annotations with the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label.
```

## Verify which Pods use the sidecar injection annotation

> To see which Pods in your workloads have the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation set, run the following kubectl command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see which Pods in your namespace have the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation set, run the following kubectl command:
```

```
kubectl get po -o=jsonpath='{.items[?(@.metadata.annotations.sidecar\.istio\.io/inject)].metadata.name}' -n {NAMESPACE}
```
Or the following istioctl command:
```
istioctl analyze -n {NAMESPACE}
```

Here's an example of a Pod with the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation set to `true`:
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: example-workload
  namespace: test-namespace
  annotations:
    sidecar.istio.io/inject: "true"
spec:
  containers:
  - name: istio-proxy
    image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/external/istio/proxyv2:1.16.1-distroless
    ...
  - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
    name: example-workload
  ...
```

## Change the sidecar injection annotations to labels

> You must replace `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation with the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label on each of the Pods listed after executing the previous commands. In order to do so, ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must replace `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation with the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label on each of the Pods listed after executing the previous commands. In order to do so, you must replace annotation in favour of label in your workload's Pod's template.
```

---
title: "Deprecation of the Istio sidecar injection annotation"
author:
  name: 
tags:
  - Kyma
  - Service Mesh

redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/deprecation-of-sidecar-injection-annotation"
---
Every new release brings some updates and fixes to which we need to adjust our workloads. With Istio 1.16 the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation was deprecated in favor of the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label. Read on to find out how to configure your Pods so that the Istio sidecar injection remains fully supported.

## Overview
To enable injecting the Istio sidecar proxy into a Pod, you can label the entire Namespace the Pod belongs to or the Pod itself. For more information about the Istio sidecar proxy injection, read the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/) and visit [this blog post](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/main/04-operation-guides/operations/smsh-01-istio-enable-sidecar-injection/).

> So far, you could modify a workload's configuration using either the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation or the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label. With the 1.16 release of Istio, **the annotation was deprecated** in favor of the label. Therefore, you must verify which of your Pods have the Istio sidecar injection annotation set and replace each of these annotations with the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label. **Istio will get upgraded to version 1.16 with the release of Kyma 2.10**, but you can start the necessary preparations already. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So far, you could modify a workload's configuration using either the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation or the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label. With the 1.16 release of Istio, **the annotation was deprecated** in favor of the label. Therefore, you must verify which of your Pods have the Istio sidecar injection annotation set and replace each of these annotations with the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` label. **Istio will get upgraded to version 1.16 with the release of Kyma 2.10**, but you can already start the necessary preparations. 
```

## Verify which Pods use the Istio sidecar injection annotation

To see which Pods in your Namespace have the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation set, run one of the following commands:

<div tabs name="kubectl-and-istioctl-commands">
  <details open>
    <summary label="kubectl">
    kubectl
    </summary>
    ```
    kubectl get po -o=jsonpath='{.items[?(@.metadata.annotations.sidecar\.istio\.io/inject)].metadata.name}' -n {NAMESPACE}
    ```
  </details>
  <details>
    <summary label="istioctl">
    istioctl
    </summary>

    ```
    istioctl analyze -n {NAMESPACE}
    ```
  </details>

> </div>

Reviewer 2: The first dropdown and the code in both of them do not render correctly.

Here's an example of a Pod with the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation set to `true`:
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: example-workload
  namespace: test-namespace
  annotations:
    sidecar.istio.io/inject: "true"
spec:
  containers:
  - name: istio-proxy
    image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/external/istio/proxyv2:1.16.1-distroless
    ...
  - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
    name: example-workload
  ...
```

## Change the Istio sidecar injection annotations to labels

Replace the Istio sidecar injection annotation with the label on each Pod listed as a result of executing the previous command. To do so, remove the `sidecar.istio.io/inject: "true"` annotation from a Pod's template, and add the `sidecar.istio.io/inject: "true"` label. After the changes, a Pod should look like this:

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: example-workload
  namespace: test-namespace
  labels:
    sidecar.istio.io/inject: "true"
spec:
  containers:
  - name: istio-proxy
    image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/external/istio/proxyv2:1.16.1-distroless
    ...
  - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
    name: example-workload
  ...
```

## Final remarks

>  Read [this blog post](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/01-overview/main-areas/service-mesh/smsh-03-istio-sidecars-in-kyma) to discover the benefits that the Istio sidecar proxy brings. In [the blog section](https://kyma-project.io/blog/) on the Kyma website, you can find all the essential news and tutorials related to Kyma Istio.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 Read [this blog post](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/01-overview/main-areas/service-mesh/smsh-03-istio-sidecars-in-kyma) to discover the benefits that the Istio sidecar proxy brings. In [the blog](https://kyma-project.io/blog/) on the Kyma website, you can find all the essential news and tutorials related to Kyma Istio.
```
